(energetic blues music)
- It's oh-dark-thirty and
we're already on the road
heading to a place north of here
by about 2 and a half hours,
where a gentleman's got
buildings full of cars
that are unbelievable.
He said, "I bought them
'cause I loved them,
"not 'cause they were
gonna go up in value."
Well they all went up in value
and so now we've been invited to see
buildings full of cars that he restored
20, 30, 40 years ago
and now they're sitting
in those buildings,
kind of unrestoring themselves.
It's a pretty sad sight
but the cars are amazing
so come along for the ride.
So whats a Barn Find guy doing flowers?
Well I like flowers, okay?
Actually, we're going
to see a guy named Billy
who's got an amazing selection of cars
and he happened to tell me that today
is his wife Carolee's birthday
so bought Carolee some flowers.
This is what you do to be a
successful barn find hunter.
Sometimes it takes buying
a bouquet of flowers.
Remember what I told you in
the past about dead end roads?
These are the roads that
contain the treasures that
nobody wants to go down a dead end road.
Well, this is where the treasures are, so
this is the perfect case-in-point
for going down dead end roads.
Look at these, here we go.
Building's full of this.
Here we go, Billy and Carolee.
This is the ladies love me.
- Oh my, thank you, they're beautiful!
- Happy birthday, Carolee.
- Thank you very much.
- [Tom] So Billy, what's your dad's name?
- Walter "Bicket" Eubanks.
- [Tom] Walter, okay.
- Just call him Bicket.
- [Tom] Nice to meet you, Bicket.
And thanks for teaching
this guy about car stuff.
Where do we start, which
room do we start in,
over here, over here?
- Well, uh, probably since
we're in here and it's raining,
let's look at the--
- [Tom] Okay.
- You wanna look at
the Lincoln and the Stutz?
Now they're dirty, I
ain't cleaned them up.
- Good, we don't want 'em clean.
- [Billy] Had a lot of fast cars and, uh,
and drove fast a lot but
I never had a ticket.
- [Tom] Never got a ticket?
- [Billy] Never had a ticket.
- [Tom] Man...
And this is a 1929 Stutz,
overhead cam shaft vertical engine.
And how long have you
had something like this?
- [Billy] It's been several years.
This is oh-40, that's a 1940.
- [Tom] 1940 Lincoln Continental?
- [Billy] Yeah, the 41,
they had two-piece fenders
but the 41's were two-pieces stamped out.
The 40's, the back half of
that fender was handmade.
- [Tom] Handmade.
- [Billy] Was six slits
in the back fender to make that turn.
- [ Tom] Oh man.
- [Billy] When I first
cleaned the paint off,
I says, "well somebody homemade
a fender on this thing.
"It's torn to pieces".
Well, I went to the show, when
I went and got that Lincoln
Ford Motor Company trophy, they said that
Lincoln handmade those fenders
and I had the only Lincoln
there, there were six Lincolns,
maybe four, four or
six, 40's there to show.
And I was the only one that had
the homemade fenders skirts on it.
- And this was basically a handmade car?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- Wow.
- That whole back end is handmade.
- Are there cars back here too?
- [Billy] The cars are
in there, the other side
(energetic blues music)
- [Tom] Oh, now we're getting
to some stuff here, wow.
Alright, so even though you're a Mopar guy
and a Hudson guy, I mean,
you've got Chevrolets.
Do you remember any stories
about any of these cars?
About who you got them from or anything?
- I was working at the
Chevrolet dealership
and this car got traded in.
It got stolen one time, you
know they got a switch on this.
Mama drove it to work one night and they,
she didn't get the switch cut off right
and somebody stole it.
It upset me so bad that
I prayed to the Lord
that he'd give it back
to me by the weekend
or he'd either give me the understanding
to handle that problem, my
faith worried me to death.
But that Friday night, the
law the from nearby town
said he had a Corvette racer.
Didn't need it, we could come get it.
They had got it out in the woods
and it won't hurt except
to say it didn't half run.
Well what the people had
done, they jerked it so hard
they pulled three spark
plug wires off the left side
when it broke the motor mount.
- [Tom] Oh, doing a burnout?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- [Tom] Oh!
- So I went down and got it and
drove it home on five cylinders.
I didn't know why it was running bad,
I was just tickled to get it back.
- [Tom] Now that's an
intriguing car right there.
A Daytona, what's the story with that car?
- If you do look back into
history of these Dodges
when they started building them,
they had a wide wing on the back.
I don't know if you ever
seen a picture of one
with a wider wing.
- [Tom] A wider one?
- A wider wing, I might have one.
I have got one somewhere, but anyway,
there's a set of holes in
this car right out here.
You can see on the inside.
Feel it where they welded them up.
They put the regular wing back on
but they did some testing
with 'em on the outside,
with the wing out flush
and this was that car.
I joined the Daytona Superbird Club
and not many of them
had clear lenses in 'em.
This one's got all clear glass in it.
No power steering, no power brakes.
It was a 440 four-speed.
- [Tom] So 440 four-speed,
single four-barrel?
- [Billy] Yep, well
it's got two on it now.
It has two on it when I got it but
it didn't come that way, I don't think.
- [Tom] And did you drive this car much?
- [Billy] I have driven
it, yeah, I've driven it.
- [Tom] It really had
no value then, did it?
- [Billy] No.
- [Tom] What did you,
do you remember what you paid for it?
- [Billy] No.
- [Tom] Now here's a 440 six-pack Charger.
- [Billy] It's the RT but I
painted to take the decals off.
- [Tom] Uh huh and
that's an automatic car.
Boy, look at that air cleaner, whoa.
So you got three two-barrels
underneath there.
You do nice paint jobs,
I gotta tell you that.
(energetic blues music)
So what cars are interesting in here?
Alright, so here we have two rare Fords.
That's a Torino Talladega.
- [Billy] Yep.
- [Tom] Is that a 70 or 69?
- [Billy] 69.
- [Tom] Now some of these had big motors.
Does this have a 429?
- Well they had the same motor in 'em.
This is a 428.
- A 428 Cobra Jet?
So that's a single four-barrel 428?
- [Billy] Yeah.
Need to oil that hood.
- See this was an extended nose
that Ford put on a standard Torino.
It's about three inches longer
or maybe longer than that.
Holman and Moody and Ford
Motor Company got together
and designed a car with
Snoopy nose, a sloopy nose
to keep it down at tracks like Talladega
so that the front end
wouldn't come up in the air.
Okay, Mercury Cyclone, that's
the Dan Gurney special.
The Mercury was tagged
"Dan Gurney Special".
- [Billy] The Mercury's a lot
rarer than the Ford to me.
700 Fords, they claimed
to make 500 Mercuries,
but I think they made about 275.
- [Tom] No kidding.
Is that an automatic car?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- This is a 302 in here?
- [Billy] No, it's a 351 I think.
- [Tom] What an intriguing
package deal here
are these two cars, wow, nice.
- [Billy] That's a 57 Chevy Nomad.
- [Tom] Mm hmm, 57 Chevy.
Now anything usual about
this engine, is it 283?
- [Billy] Yeah but it's just a Nomad.
- [Tom] So no fuel injection
or anything like that?
- [Billy] No.
- [Tom] That's a manual
gear box, three on the tree.
That's a Mark two, that
was the most expensive car.
In effect, Ford charged
so much money and yet
they still lost money in every car.
So it's a Hudson Hornet Coupe.
Oh, you have a Rolls Royce.
It's a special car.
Oh, here we have another Chrysler 300?
Another big Hemi with two four-barrels.
Boy, that's some rare stuff here.
427 Chevy Impala convertible.
It's automatic console, bucket seats.
I can't imagine the
torque that that car has.
58 Chrysler Imperial and so did you,
did you drive this car to high school?
- [Billy] I drove it to high school, yes.
- [Tom] This was your
high school car, wow.
So a 55 four-door.
- It's got 30, 36,000 miles on it.
- [Tom] No kidding.
More cars, how do you like that?
This is amazing that we're walking by cars
that on a normal episode,
we would spend a half
hour looking at that car,
salivating over it if we found it in
Northern California or Texas.
Wow, look at that 55, it's great.
But here, there's so many
other cars that are around
that I feel guilty about
not paying attention
and giving credit to these cars.
Oh, nice Jaguar.
Well you didn't know you'd be
pressed into service today.
- No, I didn't, no I didn't.
(laughter)
- On your birthday, no less.
- Right.
(chuckles)
- [Tom] Now Billy's knee has taken him
out of service for a little
while, he's got a bad knee.
So Carolee, on her
birthday, has volunteered to
walk us through these buildings.
- [Carolee] Volunteered
might be a little of--
(laughter)
- So here you've got
turbo jet 360 horsepower.
That's a big block, you can
tell by the valve covers.
That's a factory big block 427,
so we've seen two of those so far.
Red convertible and this,
I guess it's a black
or dark blue convertible.
Have you, uh, maybe you'll find
cars you never knew you had?
- It's very possible.
We have over 100.
- [Tom] No kidding.
- [Carolee] My grandchildren went around
and counted them one
day and we've got about,
they're not all fixed up
but the woods are full.
It's been quite his life work.
- [Tom] Yeah, isn't that wonderful?
So this is a Z28.
- [Carolee] Yeah.
[Tom] So, I don't know,
it's probably a 70.
So this is a Chrysler,
probably a 57 Chrysler
I'm guessing by the--
[Carolee] He liked the
Chryslers and he liked,
he really liked the old
cars that every year
got real excited about
the models coming out.
- [Tom] Now this I know
is a Lincoln Cosmopolitan.
To my knowledge, the Continental
was not a Lincoln Continental,
it was a Continental made by Lincoln.
But this is a Lincoln Cosmopolitan
so it's got both names on the fender.
And I think this was the
lower priced Lincoln,
if I'm not mistaken.
It was based on kind
of a Mercury-sized car.
- [Carolee] Well when Billy
first started collecting,
he was more into the old Lincolns.
He liked the old Lincolns.
- [Tom] Mm hmm.
- [Carolee] When we first got married,
he only had a car or two.
(laughter)
And then after our daughter was born,
I was in the hospital
and he came and he said,
"get up and look out the window."
He was just really weird, I thought,
"he's so happy about our little girl."
But he bought another car.
He had it parked outside the hospital
and wanted me to see it.
And my life has been
like that forever more.
(raucous laughter)
- [Tom] Oh man, you can't make that up.
(energetic blues music)
- [Carolee] This is the car he
wanted me to tell you about.
- [Tom] Oh, okay.
- [Carolee] This was a
car that he restored.
We have showed a few cars,
but Billy doesn't do with fixing them.
He's not that much into competing.
But we went to Gatlinburg,
we hauled this one to Gatlinburg
when my daughter, older
daughter was about 15.
Billy registered the car in her name
'cause he didn't want
to go to the banquette.
He wanted to stay out and swap car parts
with all the other nuts.
So Tammy and I went into the banquette.
You know, they gave out
all the little trophies
and Tammy was kind of disappointed.
She thought her daddy'd like a trophy.
And then they got to this big one
and they said, "Tommy Eubanks".
Well, it was Tammy Eubanks
and that child got up
and got that trophy so fast I
couldn't even get a picture.
- Isn't that something?
- She was up and back at her seat
and wanting to run out and tell her daddy.
- So this won Best of Show.
- Yeah, it did.
And it was still a bargain.
- [Tom] Oh, here he is.
We're hearing all the stories here.
Here we have a Studebaker.
So here's the supercharger's
belt-driven off the crankshaft
and drives air through that
hose and down the carburetor,
the carburetor being in here.
So it's a blow-through supercharger.
So look at this, you have an alternator,
you've got the supercharger
here driven by the belt
and spring-loaded so it's got tension.
You see that arm moves back and forth.
Here's an alternator.
It probably would've been a
generator on here originally.
And then here's an air-conditioning unit.
A lot going on with belts here.
This was a 289 engine,
it was a 289 cubic inches
Studebaker motor, not a Ford engine.
So here's another Dodge Daytona.
Most of these street cars were purchased.
Again, we'll bring up
the word homologation.
Chrysler had to build a
certain number of cars,
whether it was a Dodge or a Plymouth,
to qualify the car
homologated for NASCAR racing.
Bill France wouldn't allow
someone to build a custom car
and bring it on the track.
Remember, these were called stock cars.
They're supposed to represent what
people drove on the street.
So Chrysler came out with
a limited-production car
that people could buy but they weren't
necessarily modified very much.
They had a 440, lots
of 'em had automatics.
They had this wing and they had a nose,
a sloopy nose on there,
but they weren't really modified cars.
But some people took those
cars and modified them
and this is one of those cars.
These cars either came,
mostly came with 440s in them.
I think some had maybe 383s.
I don't know what this car had in it.
Probably a 440 originally but this one now
has a 426 Hemi in it.
It's got really huge wheels
and tires in the back
and skinnier ones in
the front, so I take it,
this was a drag car at one time.
Billy told us that the
previous owner of this car
had brought it to a test
track, Chrysler Proving Ground,
I think in Highland Park or something,
and ran it and this car
went to 190 miles an hour.
That's for a street-driven
car, which is amazing.
It's got a four-speed pistol-grip shifter.
You know, a couple of gauges were added,
a, uh, oil pressure gauge, a Suntec.
But the real modifications
are up in the front here.
This car most likely came with a 440
but this one has a 426 Hemi
engine and two four-barrels
on a high rise intake manifold
and has a big hole cut in the hood here.
So let me just put this hood down
for half a second if we can.
As you can see, those carburetors
are gonna come right out the top.
So this was a very
modified car and I take it
that this car was a drag
car that probably was
drag raced back in the day.
Very modified, who knows what the
horsepower's on that thing,
probably, y'know, 600.
Who knows, maybe more.
We don't know if it's bored in stroke.
NASCAR wouldn't allow a high
rise manifold like that.
You had to have the
carburetors under the hood.
So that's why I say this
is either a street car,
a street race car, or a drag car.
Here we are in rural
North Carolina looking at
a pretty substantial
piece of history here.
A 1970 Plymouth Superbird,
the 43rd Superbird made,
same number as Richard
Petty's famous race number.
I just want to let you
know the value of this.
I'm going through the Hagerty Price Guide
and in number four condition,
this has a value of $91,000.
The average condition or one
in good condition is $124,000.
If it were excellent, it'd be $169,000
and in concours condition, $216,000.
Well, what condition is this in?
It hasn't started in a long time.
It's dirty but I guarantee
that this car would drive,
run in drive and be cleaned up to probably
something of concours
condition or greater because
it's better than concours condition.
It's got original paint,
never been repainted.
It's got the original interior.
It's got the original drivetrain
and it's the 43rd made so
this car has a value well into
$200,000 range I would say,
according to the history
of these cars being sold.
(energetic blues music)
Well, another Hudson Hornet.
Now that's a significant car, 59 Cadillac.
This is a Biarritz Eldorado.
- [Caralee] I think it's
a Biarritz Eldorado.
- Yeah, I can't imagine what
a car like this is worth.
(door slams)
Box is blocking the way but
just look at the size of this.
The weight's probably
gotta be 5, 6000 pounds.
I mean this is the most obscene
taillight ever known to man.
It was 1959 Cadillac came out with
the fin and the tail lights.
Just amazing piece of artwork.
- [Caralee] Wanna see the Godfather?
- Oh yeah, this is it right here.
Huh, okay, another piece of history here.
41 Lincoln Continental.
This car appeared in the Godfather movie
and you can see it's got
bullet holes throughout.
This was an actual movie car.
Wow, look at this, there's a sign.
"Actual 45 caliber bullets
were fired into this
"special effects car from
a Thompson machine gun
"from the death scene in
the movie 'The Godfather'".
(bullets firing)
So this is a Hollywood star of sorts.
But this car here,
we should look at this
car for a little bit.
It's not even really a car,
it's not really a truck.
It's called a Ute and
you spell that U-T-E.
Made in Australia by
Chrysler the car company.
I think it's a Plymouth
if I'm not mistaken.
So this is probably a 56,
57 with the big fin here.
Wayfarer Chrysler, so it
usually has a tailgate.
And I'm not sure if they were built
in Australia for tax reasons.
I don't know why they were built but
they were still building Utes until just
not too many years ago.
The Airflow Chrysler,
you know, I love them
but apparently they didn't sell very well.
If you look at this 35 and any
other car, Chevrolet or Ford,
they were so much more primitive.
If you look at this car,
it's got aerodynamics.
The headlights are built into the body,
not separate, sitting up here.
And it was designed with the idea
of getting better fuel economy
and speed from a car that
was designed differently
than the normal car of the day was.
And it never caught on and
it didn't sell very well.
Now this is the car
I've been dying to see.
So this was a, what year was it?
- [Billy] 57.
- [Tom] D500.
Tell us, Billy, this is a
car you've had since new?
- [Billy] Daddy bought it new
and I've traded back for it a time or two
but I'm gonna keep it this time.
(laughter)
- [Tom] So this was a Dodge that came--
- [Billy] With a Hemi engine.
- [Tom] Equipped like you
would build like a NASCAR,
stock car out of back in the
day when they were stock cars.
It's got a Hemi engine with
a four-barrel carburetor.
Did you drive this to high school, Billy?
- Yeah.
- [Tom] So is that like a 274?
- No, it's a three-something, 315 maybe.
- [Tom] 315 so smaller
engine than a Chrysler had.
Dodges had smaller engines.
- But it was still a Hemi.
- Still a Hemi, right.
And it had a manual transmission?
- [Billy] Yeah, pretty car,
I love the chrome on it.
- [Tom] Boy, and you
bought this new, whoa.
- So you told me you ordered
it once and it came in wrong?
- [Billy] Yeah and it
was just like he ordered.
The colors were reversed,
it had an automatic in it
with the two four-barrels.
- [Tom] So his dad ordered
one from the local dealer.
- [Billy] It came wrong.
- [Tom] It had two four-barrels and a Hemi
but it had an automatic and
his dad wanted a standard.
So they went to another dealership
and ordered one with
a manual transmission.
It came with one four-barrel,
which is fine I guess.
- [Billy] It would fly.
- [Tom] Yeah, I bet, wow.
How fast have you had
this up to, do you know?
- [Billy] It didn't have the speed but
it didn't seem like it wanted to run fast
as that Imperial over there.
- [Tom] Is that right?
- [Billy] But that Imperial,
that's a 392 in it.
But this would turn
tight, it just wouldn't--
- [Tom] Is this original paint on here?
- [Billy] No, that's all my work.
- [Tom] And those are the
original hubcaps on there.
- [Billy] Yeah.
- [Tom] And that was a very
limited production car, I bet.
- [Billy] Yeah but they had one
one a little rarer than that
and we didn't know about it,
but you could get it with the 392 in it.
- Wow, that's a rare car, boy.
That's a beauty too.
- [Billy] Let's walk out
this door right here,
some more down there.
(laughter)
You like junk?
- [Tom] Oh I love junk.
(energetic blues music)
You know, I see a couple
of iconic 1960s cars.
Olds Tornado and a Buick
Riviera and both cars
are now seen as classics,
American classic cars
because they were so breathtaking,
cutting edge in their
styling and in this case,
front wheel drive,
like, who heard of that?
Front wheel drive at that point was Saabs.
And Oldsmobile did it with a huge Tornado.
Aha!
(garage door clacks)
Wow
- Open the door,
then just look inside at how nice it is.
It's got 49,000 actual miles.
- How many?
- [Billy] 49.
- 49 miles?
- [Billy] 49,000.
- Oh 49,000, right.
Wow, it's beautiful, so there's a 318?
Look how clean the fender
walls are, the fire wall.
That could be a nice car, boy, ooh.
- I got two old Chevrolets in here.
- [Tom] Oh another, two more Nomads.
Oh, ha, jeez, too many toys.
Okay, so this is the car
that Billy told us about.
This is a rare, rare car.
A 1968 Corvette 427 435 horsepower,
so it was the highest
horsepower Corvette, tri-power.
Okay, that's a rare
option it itself, okay?
Four speed, air-conditioning,
power steering, power brakes,
side exhaust, original from the factory.
It's gotta be one of the
rarest Corvettes of this era.
It's metallic blue with, it looks like,
dark brown or maybe black interior.
So this was the highest horsepower car
with all the options you
could get, so somebody was,
you know, a well heeled
person who bought this car.
They wanted power but they wanted luxury.
Factory Air, amazing.
Have you ever seen another
one optioned like this?
- [Billy] No, have you?
- No.
Power steering, power
brakes, air-conditioning,
side exhaust, high horsepower.
- [Billy] Well it's a 400 horse.
- 400 okay, so it's not 435, okay.
- [Billy] No, they
didn't make it that way.
- Ah, okay.
- [Billy] Yeah you either,
you could either have 435
or you could have air-conditioning.
But it was different cams.
- [Tom] Got it.
Okay, got it.
How you can have cars like this
and never having had a speeding
ticket, I have no idea.
Alright so here's a
sweetheart, a 57 Corvette.
So that's a four-speed car, 283.
Is this the one you'd like to
put the fuel injection on maybe?
- [Billy] Maybe.
- [Tom] Yeah.
Okay and here have another wing
car, another Dodge Daytona.
- [Billy] That's got the fast front on it
So it's a real Daytona, it's
got the double-x serial number.
That's why they had to
put, you know, all those
templates on the cars
now before they race it.
I got that front end
and I put the hood on it
the thing was 3/4 of an
inch long on the right side.
- [Tom] On purpose?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- Oh, alright so what Billy's telling us,
this is the era when NASCAR
started to require templates
before cars to go through tech inspection
because they were being built strangely
and Billy said the right side of this car
is 3/4 of an inch longer
than the left side
and he knows that because he
had to do front end repairs.
- [Billy] I had to do
rush the hood over it.
- So this nose was actually
purchased from Harry Hyde
and this was on an actual NASCAR race car
that Bobby Isaac drove.
What motor's in this?
- [Billy] It has got a red hot 440 in it.
It has to, it's got so much cam,
the power brakes don't work.
- So that's not really a street car.
There's no headlights, right?
- [Billy] No.
- X-X the first two numbers in the VIN
indicate that it's a genuine Daytona.
What year is it, 69?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- Mm hmm.
So all Superbirds are 70s and
all Daytonas are 69s, okay.
So it's got an automatic.
I wonder how many miles are on this thing.
73,206 miles.
So you got this whole nose from Harry?
- [Billy] Yeah.
- So this is--
- [Billy] Except for the hood.
- Okay, so I wonder what
was here when this plated.
- [Billy] I think they had a
place that could a hole in it.
- [Tom] Oh yeah, they
had the overflow tanks
or the sump tanks here I
guess, huh, pretty neat.
(energetic blues music)
We have a Super Bee and let's
see what's under the hood.
426 Hemi, ha ha, okay,
this is a hot rod then.
Bring that flashlight up again.
426 Hemi head, who knows
what the horsepower is in
that thing, probably at least 500.
This had to have been restored.
I mean the paint under
this hood is just perfect.
So this car has Super Bee on it,
but it wasn't born as a Super
Bee, it was born as a Coronet.
And it was born with a
318 cubic inch engine,
now it has a Hemi, so
it's a bit of a hot rod.
It's got low mileage, only 47,000 miles.
What's it worth, it's
probably worth in the,
I don't know, I'd say in
the 40's maybe because
for all practical purposes,
it is a Super Bee,
but it was just born a Coronet.
Any car, and it shows me that, you know,
Billy's into hot rodding
because, most likely,
he built this because he was able to find
a really solid Coronet and it
was hard to find a Super Bee.
Alright now we're in the
downstairs of this building.
(laughter)
So just more cars of
Billy's eclectic taste.
Another Chrysler 300
next to a Jaguar XJ12L.
58 Chevys, you know for a long time,
I walked past 58 Chevys
looking for 57 Chevys
and 55 Chevys, 56
Chevys, but now 58 Chevys
have kind of come onto their own.
Oh boy, fun never stops.
This is your Ford building?
I got a Corvette, Corvette, Corvette.
Nah, it's not all Fords.
Okay, so we have three 57 Thunderbirds,
which all three of them
have chrome wire wheels,
which was an option.
Now this is the rare one
of the three, the red one.
And Billy told me it's
got two four-barrels,
factory two four, so
this is called an E Code.
This is a T-Bird with an E
Code motor, two four-barrels.
Also, very unusual for a
T-Bird, is that it's got a
manual transmission, a
three-speed on the floor.
Oh, plus overdrive, okay,
three-speed plus overdrive.
White interior, white top, red body,
chrome wire wheels, big
motor, standard transmission.
Nice, nice little package here.
54 Corvette, now if you
know about Corvettes,
if you don't, I'll tell you about it.
53 first year of the Corvette,
fiberglass body and 54.
Those two years, it was
called a Blue Flame six.
You couldn't get a V8 in
a Corvette in those days
and the reason they
developed a car like this
is because Jaguar was the
sportiest car of the day.
And Jaguars had a six cylinder motor
and they handled well
and they performed well
and they raced well and
Corvette came out with
their own version of a Jaguar,
which was the Corvette.
Instead of a steel body,
it had a fiberglass body.
But the problem was they used
production parts they had
for sedans and so it didn't quite have
the same lineage as Jaguar did.
So it had a six cylinder
overhead valve motor
with three carburetors on it
because Jaguars also had
multiple carburetors.
This had three Rochester
side drafts I think.
Also for the first two years,
you couldn't get a standard transmission.
It was only available in
a Powerglide automatic.
Some of these were raced,
some were road raced.
Not a lot of them and they
didn't do particularly well.
But over the next couple years,
Corvettes started to come on their own.
They added a three-speed and
a four-speed and a V8 engine.
And ultimately when you got to
a Stingray, independent suspension.
But this is where it
started and thankfully,
they didn't end production on the Corvette
because as we know, it's one of the most
successful sports cars in the world.
We've seen a couple of Corvettes already.
This is, I think, the
fourth that we've seen.
This one's been off the road since 1988.
In 67, the highest
horsepower car you could get
was an L-88 427 but they're
rarer than hen's teeth.
They only made a few of them.
So this was the highest horsepower
production car you could really get.
This car's got a big block with
three two-barrels tri-power.
It's got side exhaust.
It's a four-speed and it's a sweet car.
I mean I can't imagine how
good this car would sound
if started up, my goodness.
So this is a 1980 Corvette
that Billy bought new.
He had to order it,
took a long time to get.
It had angle port heads.
It had a four-bolt main
so even though it wasn't high horsepower,
because back in 80, you know,
cars didn't have a lot
of horsepower back then,
this was a pretty special car.
He's still got plastic on the seats.
Man, look at that.
It's an automatic, let's see
what the mileage is on this.
Whoa, is that the real mileage?
Nine point two miles.
(laughter)
Wow, man.
So how's it run?
(laughter)
You know, think about that car next to us,
which is before the pollution
standards were put in place,
435 horsepower probably underrated,
probably 500 horsepower okay,
for insurance reasons 435.
That 67 to 1980, 220 horsepower.
I drive a Mini Cooper
that's got 210 horsepower
so it doesn't seem fair that a Corvette
only had that much
horsepower but, you know,
they were a comfortable, nice-driving car
and they just didn't have
a lot of horsepower at the time but it was
the best car you could get
in America in that time.
And now we're coming to
probably the last car.
Pantera was build by De
Tomaso with a Ford motor
and it was a car that you could
buy at a Lincoln dealership.
Ford at the time had lots
of high performance cars.
Boss 429s and Boss 302s and they had just
come through the Cobra era.
This was one chance that Mercury had to
get in the high performance
sports car business as well.
The Pantera was sold through
Lincoln dealerships in the day.
It had a 351 Cleveland motor but this was
the original Pantera which
had the small fenders,
not those big flairs and wings.
This was a pure sports car.
I wonder how many miles are on this.
Probably not a lot, huh?
14,532 miles, wow.
Alright, so we've seen
building on top of building,
car on top of car.
I thought I'd see all the cars.
I've found my favorite car
of the whole collection.
It's a Jaguary XK120 Coupe and
you can't really see it here,
but it's dark blue and
it's got brown interior
and as Billy told me, the interior's,
except for this one seat
bottom, the interior's original.
What a beautiful, beautiful car.
We saw an XK140 earlier,
which as a longer roof and,
for a guy like me, better leg room,
but this is the more pure design
with the short roof and the long hood.
So if Billy said take one home,
that would be it right here.
(energetic blues music)
Follow this man.
Oh, we haven't seen all the buildings yet.
Alright, this is gonna
be the most mammoth,
impressive car you've ever seen.
59 Cadillac Eldorado
Biarritz, my goodness.
Factory bucket seats.
I didn't know there was
bucket seats in 59, man.
And tri-power.
Is that a 472 or something?
- [Billy] I can't remember what it is.
- What a mammoth car, my goodness.
We looked this car up on
the Hagerty Price Guide
and it's unbelievable.
In fair condition, which is
number four condition, $101,000.
In good condition, which is what
most of them are, is $133,000.
In excellent condition 180 grand
and in concours condition $260,000.
So we're looking at a car here that
has a value greater than
the Superbirds we saw
in the other buildings.
You know what, cleaned up, I'd say this is
probably a concours car so
we're looking at a car worth
a quarter of a million
dollars, just amazing.
We've been here for
hours and hours and hours
looking at what I think is
probably the finest collection of
unknown cars that I've
ever seen in my life.
And just when we thought there
was no more buildings to see,
Billy invites us inside to see,
oh there's another building here,
and there's a 59 Cadillac
Biarritz convertible
that's, like, a piece of sculpture.
Bright red, something that
Elvis Presley would've driven
or Lucile Ball or somebody like that.
It's been an amazing
day here in the woods.
I'm glad we were able to share it with you
because it's a very private collection and
not too many people know about this but
we were given permission
by the owner to come here
respectfully and tour it.
Nothing's for sale so
don't even bother asking.
It's just one special
man who has collected
a series of special cars during his life.
He bought them when they were cheap
and kept 'em because he loved 'em,
not because they were
worth a lot of money.
And now they are worth a lot of money.
Happy hunting.
(indistinct conversation)
So, 59 Ford convertible, 58
Chevy Impala two-door hard top.
A Studebaker, oh a custom
Studebaker, look at that, ha.
A couple Eldorados.